Let’s Build
Creating an IAM Group and Assigning Granular Limited Permissions

I know (hope) you’re eager to set something up, in the previous post, we assigned permissions and instance roles, but they were not granular because we were just demonstrating abstraction. In this practical, hands-on-tutorial, we will create an IAM group and assign granular limited permissions. This will demonstrate access control by using Identity and Access Management (IAM) by adhering to the Principle of Least Privilege.

Prerequisites
An AWS Administrative Account that has an Alias Account Configured (IAM)

Identity-Based Access Control
Step 1: Sign in with your Administrative Root User Account in order to grant permissions to your active Alias or IAM Account.


Step 2: Select Security, Identity & Compliance on the left side of the drop down menu.


Step 3: Select IAM.

You should be redirected to the IAM Dashboard.


Step 4: On the left side of the screen expand Access management.


Step 5: Select User groups


Step 6: Click Create group

Create User Group

User group name: CloudGlossary

Add users to the group — Optional: Add your IAM User.

Attach permissions policies — Optional: AmazonEC2ReadOnlyAccess

Click Create user group.


Step 7: Log out of your Administrative Account, and Sign in with your IAM Account

Launch EC2 Instances


Step 8: Select Compute on the left side of the drop down menu.


Step 9: Select EC2.


Step 10: Click Launch instance.


Step 11: Under Name and Tags, Name your instance AccessControl.


Step 12: Under Application and OS Images (Amazon Machine Image).

Click Quick Start.

Select Amazon Linux.

Under Amazon Machine Image (AMI), select Amazon Linux 2 AMI (HVM) (Free Tier eligible).

Under Architecture, select 64-bit (x86).


Step 13: Under Instance type, select t2.micro (Free tier eligible).


Step 14: Under Key pair (login): Proceed without a key pair (Not Recommended)


Step 15: Leave the rest as default.

Click Launch instance.

Red Banner: Instance launch failed.

You failed to launch the instance because neither your user nor your group has the permissions to launch instances, only to view them.

Throughout the Cloud Glossary, we will continuously witness and explore Access Control concepts and the Principle of Least Privilege as we provision resources.

Final Step: Login with your Root User Account, and Remove All Permissions Associated with your IAM Account.

End of Tutorial.


Building Tutorial Overview
We observed restrictive access control policies by using IAM user groups and permissions
